Add notes (#13)
cdfoundation/sig-mlops: roadmap/2020/MLOpsRoadmap2020.md

MLOps could be narrowly defined as "the ability to apply DevOps principles to Machine Learning applications" however as we shall see shortly, this narrow definition misses the true value of MLOps to the customer. Instead, we define MLOps as “the extension of the DevOps methodology to include Machine Learning and Data Science assets as first class citizens within the DevOps ecology”.

> MLOps should be viewed as a practice for consistently managing the ML aspects of products in a way that is unified with all of the other technical and non-technical elements necessary to successfully commercialise those products with maximum potential for viability in the marketplace. This includes DataOps, too, as machine learning without complete, consistent, semantically valid, correct, timely, and unbiased data is [pointless](https://databaseline.tech/lean-dml-operations/#why-dmlops) or leads to flawed solutions that can exacerbate built-in biases (cf. [Weapons of Math Destruction](https://weaponsofmathdestructionbook.com/)).

Reviewer: Perhaps this could be reworded to be less emotive.

I would like group consensus on whether we will accept links in the roadmap document. My preference is that we do not do so as we cannot guarantee that the remote content will remain as reviewed. Selective quotes with sources listed as footnotes are preferred.

Reviewer 2: I like it it mostly - first stentence is a bit long, and yeah perhaps a bit less emotive at the end, something like  "problematic" instead of "pointless" ?

Author: I did not touch the first sentence by the way. The rest is now rephrased as suggested.

MLOps must be platform and infrastructure agnostic. Adoption of MLOps is predicated upon being able to operate using this approach within the constraints of previously defined corporate infrastructure. It should be presumed unlikely that MLOps alone is a sufficient driver to motivate fundamental change to infrastructure.

> MLOps should strive to be agnostic to hardware. Models may expect to be trained or executed on CPU, GPU, TPU, dedicated ASICs or custom neuro-morphic silicon. It should be possible to use MLOps across the widest possible range of hardware. It is also desirable to have the ability to train once but run anywhere, that is, models are trained on specific hardware to minimize training time, whereas they are optimized for different target devices based on cost or performance considerations.

Reviewer: I feel this dilutes the specific meaning of the original statement. It will be very hard to build truly agnostic solutions on the training side due to the need for specific software support for given physical compute resources. Similarly, there are numerous compatibility challenges on target hardware. In the Cloud, train on GPU, run on CPU or similar may be generally achievable with a lot of work at a framework level but is challenging today. Train on GPU, run on ASIC is commercially very important and represents the most extreme case of 'cross-compilation'.

Author: I am not sure I understand the meaning of the original statement and how it's markedly different from the current. Perhaps you can clarify.

It still says that it should be agnostic of the target hardware. The reason I removed 'target' from the first sentence is because (as it already said), models can be trained on CPU/GPU/TPU/what have you. MLOps needs to encompass both training _and_ target hardware. 

Perhaps we cannot expect MLOps to be _fully_ agnostic of the training hardware, since supported hardware for training is framework-dependent, but that is true of target hardware, too. The overwhelming majority of use cases will involve training on CPUs (maybe GPUs) and deploying in the cloud/on premise onto CPUs (Model -> Docker -> Kubernetes appears to be the go-to way in the industry at the moment).

Reviewer: Ok, this suggests to me that more clarity is required in a more specific manner so I suggest the attached expansion to resolve this.

Reviewer 2: it seems like a good aim, but that train once/specialised seems perhaps out of the scope of this?

Author: With IoT devices becoming more prevalent and the industry embracing that development too, I think there may be a need in the next 5-10 years to support train once / run (almost) everywhere. I agree it's out of scope for the 2020 roadmap, but perhaps not if we look beyond the current year.

> MLOps should strive to be agnostic to hardware. Models may expect to be trained or executed on CPU, GPU, TPU, dedicated ASICs or custom neuro-morphic silicon. It should be possible to use MLOps across the widest possible range of hardware. It is also desirable to have the ability to train once but run anywhere, that is, models are trained on specific hardware to minimize training time, whereas they are optimized for different target devices based on cost or performance considerations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is very important that MLOps should make no over-simplified assumptions with respect to hardware. To achieve currently known customer requirements in a range of ML fields, it will be necessary to achieve performance gains of at least three orders of magnitude. This can be expected to lead to significant change with respect to the hardware utilised to train and execute models.

We make the following assertions:

- Models may expect to be **trained** on various combinations CPU, GPU, TPU, dedicated ASICs or custom neuro-morphic silicon, with new hardware entering the market regularly.
- Models may expect to be **executed** on various combinations CPU, GPU, TPU, dedicated ASICs or custom neuro-morphic silicon, again with new hardware entering the market regularly.
- It **must not** be assumed that models will be executed on the same hardware as they are trained upon.

It is desirable to have the ability to train once but run anywhere, that is, models are trained on specific hardware to minimise training time, and optimised for different target devices based on cost or performance considerations, however this aspiration may need to be tempered with a degree of pragmatism. The ability to train on a given hardware platform requires, at minimum, dedicated driver support, and in practice usually also necessitates extensive library / framework support. The ability to execute on a given hardware platform may involve having to significantly optimise resource usage to lower product cost or require the production of dedicated silicon specific to a single task.

 Whilst there will undoubtedly be common scenarios, for example in Cloud deployment, where CPU -> CPU or GPU -> GPU is sufficient to meet requirements, MLOps must allow for a broad range of potential cross-compilation scenarios. 
```
